# View menu

**Control the display**


## Chapter level

**Hide the sections**

With **View \> Chapter level** or `Ctrl`-`Alt`-`C`, you can collapse the
tree, so that only parts and chapters are visible.

## Expand selected

**Show a whole branch**

With **View \> Expand selected**, you can expand a selected tree
element.

## Collapse selected

**Hide child elements**

With **View \> Collapse selected**, you can collapse a selected branch.

## Expand all

**Show the whole tree**

With **View \> Expand all**, you can expand the whole tree.

## Collapse all

**Hide child elements**

With **View \> Collapse all**, you can hide all tree elements except the
main categories.

## Show Book

**Go to the \"Book\" branch and expand it**

With **View \> View Book**, you can select and open the \"Book\" branch.

## Show Characters

**Go to the \"Characters\" branch and expand it**

With **View \> View Characters**, you can select and open the
\"Characters\" branch.

## Show Locations

**Go to the \"Locations\" branch and expand it**

With **View \> View Locations**, you can select and open the
\"Locations\" branch.

## Show Items

**Go to the \"Items\" branch and expand it**

With **View \> View Items**, you can select and open the \"Items\"
branch.

## Show Plot lines

**Go to the \"Plot lines\" branch and expand it**

With **View \> Show Plot lines**, you can select and open the \"Plot
lines\" branch.

## Show Project notes

**Go to the \"Project notes\" branch and expand it**

With **View \> View Planning**, you can select and open the \"Project
notes\" branch.

## Toggle Text viewer

**Show/hide the novel text**

With **View \> Toggle Text viewer** or `Ctrl`-`T`, you can open or close
the [text viewer](desktop) window, showing part/chapter/section
titles and section content.

---

**Hint**

-   On reopening, the windows shows the text, where the tree is
    selected.
---

## Toggle Properties

**Show/hide the selected element's properties**

With **View \> Toggle Properties** or `Ctrl`-`Alt`-`T`, you can open or
close the element properties window.

---

**Hint**

On reopening, the window shows the properties of the currently selected
element.

---

## Detach/Dock Properties

**Show the selected element's properties either in the main window or in
its own window**

With **View \> Detach/Dock Properties** or `Ctrl`-`Alt`-`D`, you can
detach or dock the element properties window .

---

**Hint**

On closing the detached window, the properties are docked again.

---

## Options

**Project independent program settings**

With **View \> Options**, You can open a dialog for settings concerning
the display.

### Coloring mode

**Set criteria according to which normal sections are colored in the
tree**

None

:   Normal sections are black on white by default.

Status

:   Normal sections are colored according to their completion status
    (*Outline*, *Draft*, *1st Edit*, *2nd Edit*, or *Done*).

Work phase

:   Normal sections are highlighted if their completion status does not
    match the work phase defined in the [Book properties](book_view#writing-pogress).

### Large toolbar icons

By default, the icon size is 16x16 pixels. If the *Large toolbar icons*
checkbox is ticked, 24x24 icons are used after the next program startup.

---

**Note**

This applies not only to the toolbar, but also to all other icons that
decorate the application's control elements.

---

### Display localized dates

-   If ticked, localized dates are displayed.
-   If unticked, dates are displayed like *YYYY-MM-DD*, according to ISO
    8601.

### Columns

**Change the column order**

-   From top to bottom in the list means from left to right in the tree.
-   Just drag and drop to change the order.

Click the **Apply** button to apply changes.
